This is the Linux Action Show Unplugged, Episode 1 for August 12, 2013.
Hi everyone, welcome to the Linux Action Show Unplugged. It's our first episode and that's
exciting. We're doing it on a Monday afternoon. My name is Chris. My name is Matt. Hey Matt.
Hey there. Sorry I didn't mean to step on you. That's okay. Sorry about that. One thing that
I'm kind of looking forward to, because we never really get a chance to do it in the big show,
is bring on some folks and chat with them live during the show. And we have a hangout set up.
And we'll see how it works out. I'm a little concerned. We've got audio troubles, but I think
it's gonna be good. It's getting a little funky. It's learning, you know, getting used to the new
timing, getting used to the whole thing. It's, you know, it's definitely Google Plus being a
little janky. I think what we've discovered is that the future does not lie in hangouts for this
show. But already at launch, we know it's probably, we need to set up a mumble server or something.
And then we'll get like people hanging out in there and we can bring them into like rooms
that are designed just for the show. And then we can kick people out when they're jerks. I like
that idea. In just the short time we've been on hangouts, we've had Windows 8 users stop by. That
was almost offensive. But I mean, we were accepting of their choices. And we have people that didn't
speak English stop by, didn't use Linux stop by. Yeah. So hangouts so far, we're a little hit and
miss. But we'll bring in the panel that we have assembled later in the show as we get going. But
first I want to just take a minute and talk about the new show. We don't plan to do this too often,
but it's kind of an opportunity to talk about ourselves a little bit. Matt and I were kind
of brainstorming on a couple of problems that the Linux action show has faced. And one has been that
we just have this torrential amount of feedback that we generate every single week from every
single show. And ideas sometimes on how to do something differently than how we talked about
it in the show. Sometimes it's, it's, Hey, did you actually know that maybe that's not the best way
to do it or anything like that, right? Exactly. And trying to find a way to present that in a
way that wasn't going to just absolutely become a time suck. Right. Yeah. Cause it would drag down
the whole show. Exactly. And I had, I had threatened for like a long time. I was like,
one of these days, Matt, I'm going to make a feedback show and walls are going to talk
about his feedback. Well, that's kind of what we're doing. Although that's not the show in,
in, in its entirety, that's only going to be a component of this show. Uh, you know,
I mean the feedback I think is going to generate a lot of good discussion and a lot of ideas,
but I'm hoping that this show is even more of an opportunity to kind of get down into,
uh, some episodes. I want to just like totally just dig into a topic and we're just going to
only talk about really just that. And, you know, maybe we'll just spend an hour discussing
something, just really go deep. Sometimes I want to, I want to just be all over the board and just
talk about live topics that have come up throughout the week, things that people want to bring up,
you know, do panel discussions kind of like we're going to try on this episode and see what works.
I'm pretty excited about the prospect of it. I think it's going to be interesting to see how
this comes to fruition, which direction we ended up taking it and really where the chat room guides
us to. Yeah. And what from this will kind of surface up into the big show and make that an
even better show. And, uh, I'm looking forward to it, but, uh, I wanted to start, I thought with,
uh, the most classiest way. Um, and that would be me complaining. Always, always a classy,
a classy approach, right? Like whenever you want to impress people with the new show,
the first thing you want to do is try to offend a good subset of your potential listeners. That's
podcast or one-on-one. Everybody knows that. I don't know why more shows don't do this.
Uh, it was actually, and I, I, I can't, I can't bear all the blame. I have to put some of the
blame on James 0 6 1 0 in our, uh, subreddit. He, he wrote and he got me thinking. He said,
forget the arch challenge. I'm doing the KDE challenge. And he says, why am I doing this?
Well, back in 2006 ish, I started to debate or I'm sorry, dabble around with Linux when I was
like a kid in a sweatshop. It was, I hit a roadblock when I tried Katie. I hated it back
then. It was slow. It was bad. It was old. I stayed away ever since yesterday. He says,
I started to get those itchy Linux feet where I couldn't stay still on what I was using. I've
been there. I've seen that myself. Instead of distro hopping, I thought maybe I would try
desktop popping. I gave Katie another go to force myself to stay with it for at least a month.
Here's what I found so far. The bad points, shit, default settings fixed with some tweaks.
And I, uh, Matt, you know, after the, after we went off air two weeks ago, I just kind of leaned
over, you know, and I said, I am so fricking tired of these ass backwards settings and Katie,
every single default I have to change. Didn't I say that after the show?
You almost wonder if the KDE devs are trolling users, right? I mean,
who in their right mind would make these settings legit? I know it doesn't work.
I, so, uh, but that said that said, you know, they let you change them, right? And boy,
can you change them in any way you want. Uh, and they are fairly straightforward to set up. Then
he goes on to say, uh, way too many customization options, which kind of seems like the two might
be related. If I was jumping into Linux for the first time, uh, this would make me jump
straight back to windows, but here's some good points. Kwin is a really good window manager.
True.
Yeah. I really agree with him there. I said, it can look stunning with a lot of work once
you get it set up. So am I going to stick with Katie? I don't know. I'll let you know in four
weeks. Well, so here's the thing. I, you know, Katie, when you've massaged the hell out of it,
and I'm talking about deep tissue, hot rocks, you know, hell throwing hot rocks at it. I mean,
you basically got a stone, the damn thing to make it work, right? And even when you get it there,
then the sound server decides, you know what? Oh, Hey, you're using pulse and you're using that
phone on thing. So we're going to really mix it up for you. That's where it kills me every time.
I mean, people who were watching the live stream of last unplugged know that we spent about 15
minutes just monkeying around with audio settings, trying to get it to work. Right. Um, like what?
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. They're there. So here's what I have. Here's what I have kind of come to with
Katie. So, uh, last week after the Linux action show, I got back into my home office where I edit.
And once again, my audio didn't work and I said, screw it. I restarted, I logged into
gnome and I thought for myself for about three days, man, this is so nice. It's like, I'm in
the garden. I wanted to go meditate on a rock, Matt. I tell you, it was beautiful. Like a
Cardassian on a hot stone. I'm telling you, man. Yeah, man, those Cardassians give some damn good
hot stone massages. That's right. Uh, especially when, and nevermind. Uh, anyway, so I, I, I loved
it. And then I quickly realized that Katie E while it has its lumps isn't, is, is in my opinion,
when you look back over the last five years of Linux desktops is the one that's going in the
right direction by the longest shot. And from a, from a technology standpoint, like QT, but also
from like, um, you know, an integration standpoint between all the applications, like I just, you
know, learning the other day, I can right click on the volume control and switch, which device
a program goes to right within the mixer. Uh, there's like, you can, you can middle click on
the maximize button and it horizontally maximizes, uh, or vertically. Um, you know, this, there's a
lot of little things in here that as a power user are, uh, they release dopamine in the back of my
monkey brain. When I, I'm like, Oh, someone thought of me, someone thought of me. Oh man,
that has bugged me for so long. I constantly get that sensation when I'm using Katie.
I found it to be a mixed bag. I wouldn't go quite that far, but I would say that I find
it aesthetically pleasing. I love that under arch and, or, and, or Majuro when you run it,
um, you don't have that weird overheating problem with the notebooks. Um, that's one thing, at least
with my netbook specifically, you know, I found the desktop environment's apparently matter.
It's the weirdest thing. I don't know why Katie runs cool as ice XFCE runs like crap.
How can that be though? Cause like it has compositing. So it's using.
Yeah, but it's the only differential. And then I said, okay, on a, on a, just a total crack pipe
thing, I went and searched it just to see if I'm nuts. No other people have experienced this.
Maybe, maybe XFCE is, um, using the CPU more for rendering. Whereas, uh,
But then I go to, but then when I look at my, you know, I run a top or anything else and it's like,
there's nothing weird going on. It just runs hot. It just runs hot. It's like,
there's nothing I can really identify for look to their logs. I can't figure it out.
So it's the craziest thing. And you've noticed that you've noticed a big enough difference on, uh,
Oh, I'm running Katie right now. And besides the fact that the sound server decided to play musical
and let's make things disappear. Um, you know, other than that, it runs really ice cold. I mean,
like I could put, I could literally cool off my soda right now by putting it on top of the computer.
Huh. I actually have the opposite experience to some degree. And I think, really, I think it's
because, um, I'm just, my GPU is getting hit a little more with Kaywin and I don't know.
So, you know, I ended up logging out of gnome about three days, three days after the experiment
started, went back onto Katie, dropped the whole unity set up said, now, you know what,
I'm just going to go taskbar on the bottom standard set up with conky. I, you know,
I've got that going now and I'm just trying to, I figure if I just stick with the audio
problems long enough, I'll either wait out the problems with Katie and they'll just get it fixed
or I'll become so adept at the, at the juggle, which I am starting to do now. Like I'm starting
to be able to juggle. Like while I'm on air, like, Oh, I get changes, audio interface. Oh,
unplug this USB interface, plug it in, you know, I'm starting to get the juggle down. And so maybe
I'll just cope with it that way. Uh, but I do, I think there's also this concept, um, that, um,
James was touching on and maybe it's more, more possible with arch, but I am now kind of like,
maybe I'm just going to hang out on arch for a really long time. And whenever I feel like I'm
getting that itch, I'll just install another desktop. That's the nice thing, right? Cause it's
so easy to do just boom, done. Yeah. I wonder if that, the only thing is, is we're going to see,
like, I've got elementary OS. I loaded it up this morning on the, on an external USB hard drive,
little USB drive that I'll be running 10,000 RPM, USB three hard drive that I'll be running it on
for the week. So we can talk about it on Sunday on Linux action show. And, um, I'll tell you,
I'm going to save it for the review, but there's a couple aspects of a simple UI that I feel like
making me a more productive user. True. And, and I know we've differed greatly on XFC to where I'm,
I'm a fan of it to where basically you're saying, if I can't run a modern desktop, I'm not going to
run that, that hardware. I'm just not going to do it. And I've always taken the prospect of,
I'll run that lower end desktop and stuff like that. So when I look at things like AKD,
I look at elementary, I look at all these things and they're, and they're pretty and all that, but
for me, it just really depends on the hardware. I'm going to run it on. So I don't know. I don't
know. Yeah. Yeah. I hear you. So it's something I've, I've kind of continued to evolve my stance
on cause I've, I've flip flopped around a lot, but I think, um, like it all really kind of kicked
off and started for me when, when unity kind of started to jump the shark. I, I would, I actually
think potentially my perfect desktop maybe was Ubuntu 13.10. I don't know. I don't know. I don't
know. I honestly, my perfect desktop maybe was Ubuntu 13.04, right? Yeah. Or maybe like, but,
but the problem there is like unity. I wish I could take that whole desktop experience and
move it to arch. Just, I know you can install unity on arch, but I just wish I could just,
just lift all that top layer off and lay it down on top of the arch under layer.
Um, because that UI to me was very, very efficient. That was very fast.
I don't know. Yeah. I honestly, I just don't have a, I don't have a lot of love or hate for unity
because I mean, I'm actually running a Skype right now on a unity desktop on a, on a Ubuntu box. And
honestly, I just, it's come to a point where 13.04, I don't care if it slows down worse. I
probably will stick to this for quite a while. I mean, you'll see if you upgrade 13.10, you'll
see what I'm talking about. Oh, that's so unfortunate. What a dumb thing to do. You know,
the other thing too is like with arch is, uh, and with all the other distributions too, they're kind
of now that canonical is going off on their own path. I don't feel like I'm as connected to what
the community is working on, on that desktop. So it's got a lot of exactly what they're exactly.
There's a lot going against it. Yeah. Yeah. There's a lot of drama. Exactly. And I just
don't care for the drama. Yeah. So, uh, there you go. I switched back. I'm back. I'm living on KD.
And Matt, you are too. It's interesting. You're kind of flipping a little bit too.
Well, see, and I run all kinds of stuff. It's like kind of give you a heads up with the setup. I'm
running right at this very moment. Behind me is my Mungero slash arch setup. You know, usually I
run Mungero primarily. Uh, that's, you know, and that's running XFC happily on a, on a desktop
in front of me now, because I've turned to my other desks. I basically have the Ubuntu setup,
where I've got the Skype thing going on right now. And then on a netbook, I actually have, uh,
I believe it's actually arch with KD. So I think we are in a position right now where
what we're not talking about, I don't know, maybe this is my impression, but the elephant to me in
the room seems like nobody's a hundred percent happy with any living's desktop anymore.
Nobody's a hundred percent happy with any living's desktop anymore. And we're all trying
different things out and nothing's really quite sticking. And I feel like, um, the one KDE that
has the most potential, even still, there's some districts out there that are given a great shot
and really make a great looking KDE desktop, but still nothing is just out. Like why isn't
somebody going at all elementary OS with QT and KDE? Like why isn't that happening? Why aren't we
getting the most, you know, refined artisanal KDE desktop that could sort of shake this whole,
this whole situation up a little bit and slap people in the face and look what you can do with
KD. Why aren't we seeing this? Why are we only seeing cinnamon and mate and the elementary OS
desktop environment? Why are we seeing all of this stuff? And we're not seeing anybody go after QT,
KDE, and let's just make a great, let's bring it down, let's whittle it down to the finest elements.
And instead what was, and so what we see, what you and I see, we see all of our audience members
out there that are constantly saying, well, I'm trying this. Oh, I don't like this. Oh,
I moved to this. We're always constantly moving around. Some of that's because we're geeks,
but I think a lot of it is because most of the time it's not good enough. Like I'll give you
an example, Dolphin, amazing file manager, super fast flies through my directories,
can't play video files off of Samba share. Right? Yeah. I don't like file handling in
KDE at all. It's just obnoxious. Even right clicking makes me cringe. It's just, I don't
know what it is, but the way they do things is so ass backwards. Yeah. And then of course,
inside of Dolphin is another great example of it. My biggest gripe, I can make KDE work fine.
If even if I could, I can handle all the other crap if they just did one thing and just dealt
with allowing pulse audio and the, they could, they could make that work properly. I would be
fine with it. And I probably am going to make this a project now because I want to make this work
because I can't really, you know, Gnome just makes me want to throw up. I just can't, I can't do it.
I tried. It just, it just doesn't really for me. We get notes. We get notes from people that say
that, you know, no one works great for them. And it was working really good for me for a long time,
but I just get really twitchy about that much functionality being driven by plugins.
And I'll tell you, I think it was right before the show started or during the show. I can't
remember the amount of it actually happened during the show. I went to click on my, this is actually
why I stopped. One of the reasons I stopped using Gnome again, I went to click on my volume applet
in my menu bar and I accidentally clicked on the imager extension, which had been up until that
point, a great extension where I click on imager, then I draw a box on my screen, whatever I draw,
it takes a snapshot of and immediately uploads it to imager and then puts the URL on my clipboard.
Right. Super handy. Like, Hey, like when I'm chatting in the ice, I'm like, Hey, check out
this screenshot. And I just, you know, click, drag, boom, done. Accidentally clicked the imager extension
in my menu bar, whole gnome session, totally freaks the F out. Not just like the normal gnome
where like things close and then like zooms back in, but like pair, like freaking like epileptic
shock flashing on my screen, flash, flash, flash, flash, flash, like just nonstop. Couldn't go to the
text terminal. Everything was all screwed up. I had to hard reboot the machine because I clicked
the imager extension. Oh my gosh. See, that's what I'm talking about. That's why I can't,
I can't deal with gnome, even with all Unity's flaws, although the audio is a big one, but the
rest of them, for me, they're paper cuts. They're minor. They're just not a big deal.
See, skyshaper thinks I'm bashing that gnome through because of a plugin, but I don't, Matt,
am I wrong? Or don't you think the desktop environment should be designed to protect
you from a plugin crash like that? Well, the whole, here's the problem with
gnome, my experience anywhere with gnome is that as you pointed out, everything's
based around extensions and all these plugins and stuff. So it's a little bit like saying,
okay, I'm going to take a green Pinto and I'm going to drop a brand new engine in it.
Then I'm going to put some electric windows. I'm going to get a new sound system. I'm going to do
all this other stuff. And it's all going to coordinate through one flux capacitor.
And okay, wait a minute. Now that sounds kind of cool to be honest with you.
But it's like, and then let's say your sound system goes capulli on you. And because it's
all wired through the same doohickey, everything in the car goes to crap. Well, that's essentially
what's happening in gnome because of one stupid plugin, something can create that kind of headache.
That's a real problem. Now with KDE on the other hand, it's different because of the fact that you
are looking at, in my opinion, anyway, you know, these are, they're minor issues. Again, excluding
audio because that's not minor, but as far as like the way it behaves and stuff that it's annoying,
but it's not taking a crap out on me every time I click something. Yeah. You know, I don't like
the usability point of it so much, but you know, I can make it work. KDE seems to me no more
esoteric than learning the ins and outs of windows or, or, you know, another complex operating. It's
windows seven to me, really. I mean, it really, it's about, it's kind of a meh kind of experience.
It's not bad. It's just not great. Well, why don't we, before we move off this topic,
try and bring it in the hangout and see hangout guys. Somebody, somebody there say something.
Mr. Bacon there. You got a shirt on. It says bacon and you were drinking a beer. Yeah. I
like that. That's a nice shirt, dude. That's a great, that's a nice looking beer too. Now is
your mic on? Oh, hold on. He's going to unmute. Hi there. All right. No, I still don't hear you.
I still don't hear you, but I like, I like your shirt still. And he's got a whiteboard behind him
too, Matt. Yeah. He's set up and he's prepared. He's got a pretty swank lamp too. And I don't
even know why I haven't mentioned this dude has a huge ass beard. That's a great looking beard,
man. I love that beard. There you go. Welcome to the show. Oh, I had you for a second.
Well, I'll open this up to the general panel. So anybody on the hangout who has a working mic,
what are your thoughts on, is the Linux desktop just not yet there or Matt and I just spinning
our wheels and we just need to settle down and learn to love what we got. Anybody on there?
I think the point of, sorry to interrupt. Oh, go ahead. Just say your name. I think the point of
the Linux desktop is you don't have to settle on just one thing. You could jump around. That's the
beauty of it. You're not stuck with one interface. So I don't really have an issue with people
jumping from KDE to Gnome, to Unity, to LXD, to Clide, to Enlightenment and so on and so forth.
Because it's about having that freedom, having that choice. So that's the beauty of Linux.
You can always move around. Anybody else want to chime in?
Well, I can say that I'm one of the few Unity lovers. I've tried a number of different desktops,
but this Unity satisfies me, does exactly what I want to do. So I'm happy with Unity.
Now, which version of Ubuntu are you on?
1204 LTS.
And you just kind of plan to hang out there for a while?
Absolutely. I like to get one set up that'll do what I want to do and leave it there because I
use it.
Do you have any concerns about some of the desktop software you use kind of
falling behind in versions? Or has that not been a problem in your experience?
No, it's not been a problem for me.
Yeah. I think that if I, you know, I wonder too, if I was kind of more in a traditional sort of
work environment or office environment, I think I would probably just run an LTS or something like
that. But because I'm kind of in the position where I always kind of want fresh hot off the
presses code, you know, it kind of pushes me in a different direction myself.
Well, I can understand his perspective on that because if you think about it,
he has something that works well. He has the applications he enjoys using.
It's no must, no fuss. He knows he boots it up. It's going to start. It's going to run.
His apps are going to work as he expects. I can definitely see the benefit of that.
Yeah. Now, Dan, were you going to say something?
Yeah, I'm sorry. I just wanted to put a little aspect on this. I mean, what was the question?
Is it ready for full on mainstream or?
No, not even that. Because I think what we're running into is even as non-mainstream users,
it still seems to have, it still seems to fall short as a complete inclusive solution. Like
you have, I constantly am seeing threads from people trying Gnome for a few weeks, trying KDE,
then going to XFCE, then going to a tiling window manager. And I think to me, that seems to suggest
that none of these desktops are fully baked, that they're not solving 100% of the problems
for everybody, maybe not even 70% of the problems. And I think instead of just admitting that as
Linux users, we kind of gloss over it and say, well, we have choice.
Yeah, we do. But the downside to that is, you're right, we don't have a one world solution. Unity
is probably one of the closer ones to that, but everybody, let's say some people like to look down
on the Ubuntu users. But if it works for you, like, I forgot his name, but all the gentlemen
there, great. If it works for you, there's no reason you shouldn't use it. If it's happy,
it makes you happy and it works.
Yeah. Yeah, absolutely.
But we do need a slim, fast desktop environment that does have everything without having to make
compromises. And I think that's what we are lacking.
And so in your opinion, KDE or Gnome or any of those haven't solved that for you?
Well, I felt it with Gnome 2 a long time ago. I thought I had everything, but I was really,
really new to that. But I wasn't missing anything. But with KDE, I felt like I had everything.
I wasn't missing anything. But with KDE, I kept having to think, wow, crap, I'm missing out.
So I went back over and over again.
Yeah. Yeah. Interesting.
All right. Anybody else on the Hangout? Yeah, go ahead.
Hey, Michael.
Oh, you're kind of cutting out, Michael.
You hear me?
Yeah, a little bit. Go ahead and try.
Do you hear me?
Yeah.
I've been using Mate and Sim in the last year. I've been
very active with both of them. I've been using them on Mint and on Arch.
Mate, huh?
All right, you're breaking up. I'm going to cut you off there. But Mate, that's interesting.
That's all right. I didn't expect that. I didn't see that coming. I didn't see Mate coming.
But I'll be honest, I don't judge.
Well, and I understand that, you know, I actually was a big Gnome 2 fan. So I understand the desire
to use Mate from the standpoint of, you know what you're getting, you know where everything's at,
you've got your little applets. I mean, everything's kind of predictable. You know exactly what you're
going to get. And it's, you know, it's a pleasant enough interface for someone that just wants
functionality. They're not looking for a lot of eye candy. You know, and I think that certainly
presents an interesting point. One thing that struck me, though, is everyone was talking that
I realized that Windows users and OS X users, they may have an all-in-one solution. But what's
interesting, if they hate something about their desktop environment, that's too bad with us.
They become Linux users.
Yeah, exactly. Totally right. That's exactly it. And so for us, we are spoiled in that we have
something to complain about because we have that option.
I guess so. And I do agree with you. And I have made that argument myself. But like I said,
I just don't want that to be sort of an excuse to cover up the fact that nothing's all that great.
Well, I mean, yeah, I mean, KD might have sound issues and Gnome has extension crashing problems
and XFCE might feel like it's from the 90s and Unity's controlled by an egomaniac. But at least
you have choice.
But here's the point that you may have overskipped on a little bit. Think of it this way. Think of
it this way. So we know that Gnome and KDE and even some of the lighter weight desktops, they're
not going to change unless they want to. That's just reality. Unity, same thing. They're going to
do whatever the hell they please. But some of these other guys, Cinnamon, I think it was
elementary OS and all this kind of doing their own thing with desktop stuff. I think that's where
we're going to begin seeing more stuff develop out of projects like that. And that's probably where
the solution is going to come from. Isn't it funny though, because those guys get some of the biggest
pushback because elementary gets, oh, it's a Mac clone and Cinnamon gets, oh, what's the point?
You're just wasting effort and resources. But in reality, maybe they're going to shake things up
the most. They're doing some of the most interesting differentiation out of all of them.
IBM once said there was absolutely no money in software. They were wrong. I think the people that
are saying that all this, oh, you don't need to make it look like this or make it look like that,
are also wrong. I think that history will show us that. I think over time we will actually see that
happen and they can complain all they want. Yeah. It is a long game, right? And of course,
we are the sports commentators that are here watching the game as it unfolds,
but it is a long game. All right. So it sounds like you're trying to type,
so we've muted your mic. Gosh, Google Plus is really something. How about our Google? Look
at that. Look at Google. Hey, hey, hey, Jackass, quit typing it says. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. All
right. Well, before we move to the next kind of quasi topic, we don't have real topics. We do have
a couple of real sponsors that I wanted to thank. The first one, this one, I am so thrilled because
I know someone out in our audience is going to have a much better day after they hear about Unity
Sync from Directory Wizards. And Unity Sync, its version 2.0 came out towards the end of August,
runs on Linux, and it will allow you to move information between multiple types of directories.
So you think of like maybe with Unity Sync, you could synchronize account information
between different LDAP directories you might have in your network. Oh, there goes my bottle cap.
Or maybe you might have something like an HR application that stores something in some crappy
Microsoft SQL database and you want to sync that out to MySQL or to an LDAP directory. So that way
when HR updates a phone number, that S moves over to that directory you have for IT. So that way
everybody's phone numbers on the company intranet automatically get updated. All these kinds of
little things where you have data that exists in all these different directories, but nothing's
been intelligent enough to move them all together. Well, on top of that, not only is Unity Sync built
to do that, but it also can do things like templates. So you can say when data gets
entered into a field doesn't match this, don't sync that. Or only sync these attributes of the
directory. Don't sync the entire directory. Don't sync the entire tree. Just go down the tree into
this particular area and grab just those attributes. This is solving that age old IT problem.
And man, oh man, did I run into this stuff. Especially when I had clients who merged companies
so they'd have separate active directories or separate LDAP directories and they wanted to keep
them separate for a while, but then they wanted to have some accounts like the admin account and the
CEO account. They want to sync those between the directories. Can you just sync those for me real
quick? Thanks. Yeah. Unity Sync takes care of that. Listen, if you go over to durwiz.com,
click on the download link, put in the code Linux, you'll get an extended 30 day trial
and your first year of maintenance for freezels. Yeah, that's right. For frizzles. I said it,
I said it. So go to durwiz.com and while you're over there and you're looking at Unity Sync,
check out some of their customers. They have it linked on the left-hand side of the page
and customers include things like, oh, the air force command to control information systems of
Canada. Wow. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, uh, it goes, the list goes on and on. Fiserv is in here. Um,
the, uh, the DOA, the DIA, the DC court, the DC council, um, the, uh, the, uh, there was one that
was Pentagon telecommunications center is in here. Omnicom is in here. Uh, the us army force com is
in here. Uh, us Marine Corps is in here. Us special operations command is in here. We're
talking enterprise grade and it's under five megabytes. You can get it downloaded and loaded
on your Linux box in no time and then manage it with a super easy to use web front end.
Gotta love that. Go to durwiz.com, click on unity sync and put in the code Linux to grab the demo
and enjoy the magic. Thanks to a unity sync for sponsoring last unplugged. That's awesome. Thanks
guys. Yeah, definitely. Yeah. I heard about that. I'm like, dude, we want to be on that. We want to
be on that. That's cool. I got one little tip that I mentioned just briefly today on Coder radio,
uh, before we move on. And I, that is, uh, I, I didn't talk about it on last, but I had an,
I had a nexus seven. I think I've mentioned that on the show. In fact, I loaded Ubuntu touch on
there one time. Well, so the, the nexus seven is plagued by a little bug that nobody, no Google
advocate ever talks about. And if this happened to the iPad, people would be up in arms about it.
And it's an interesting, it's a, it is an interesting example of how the tech press
doesn't ride Google the way they should for some of this stuff. So turns out nexus seven,
you let it die all the way, can't charge it. You drain the battery all the way, not going to charge.
That's a problem. Yeah. That's not even cool. Yeah. People drain their tablets, Matt. That happens.
Oh man. Yeah. I mean, who doesn't? I mean, that's the whole point. And you can't recover from that,
especially when you have two kids, right? So the charger is initiated by software. So the
charging process doesn't start until you boot into Android and Android says, yeah,
start charging that battery for me. Well, if the battery doesn't, if the battery doesn't have
enough charge, what happens is you boot in, even if it's plugged in, you boot into Android,
immediately Android says, oh dude, oh dude, you got 0% battery better reboot. So it goes into a
shutdown process. That shutdown process has some sort of video card driver crash. And then you get
static snow on the screen. Like you got on your old TV and then it shuts off and then it boots again
and it does it all over again. And it just loops and loops until the battery is so dead. You can't
even get it to power on. So I let my, I was kind of mad at it. So I let it sit for a little while.
I found out if it's really, really, really dead, which you have to do is grab the original
Asus power brick and the original Asus USB power cord, plug those in, let it sit for like an hour.
It won't turn on. It won't respond to your power button. So don't even press it. Just let it sit
for like an hour. Okay. Then, you know, this is really funny after the, after you let it sit for
an hour, you pull the power cord count for 10 seconds, then plug the power cord back in. Okay.
After you've plugged the power cord back in, hold down the power button and the, let's see,
let's see. I think it's the down arrow, the down volume area and press. Yeah. Hold that
until you start to see the bootloader come up. Then when the bootloader comes up,
choose power off and then it will charge while powered off. That is the stupidest design I've
ever heard. It's ridiculous. I mean, that is just crazy stupid, but I was able to rescue my Nexus 7
and get, uh, that's good. Yeah. I mean, you know, after an encyclopedia of reading, you were able
to recover something. It should have been, I mean, oh my God. I will link to the Google
article in the show notes. Uh, if you guys, uh, run, I, I got to imagine, I mean, tablets die
and kids leave them playing video games. I mean, I'm sure some angry birds were just chewing through
the battery for awhile. Uh, so I, I, I fixed that up and then I, uh, I, uh, wiped it with four and,
you know, four, three stock. And then I gave that to my grandpa for his 80th birthday.
So now I am Nexus free. I was honestly, I think part of the reason was because this happened to
me twice. The first time I was able to get into the bootloader myself, but the, the second time
this letting the charge for an hour and then unplugging it for 10 seconds and then plugging
it back in. That was the secret magic to actually get it to work this last time. And I was just so
frustrated with it. And my, you know, I figured my grandpa, he's been wanting to play with Android.
He's 80 years old. He got an 80 year old man saying, I'd like to play with Android for three.
How do you say no to that? Oh, totally. And what a great opportunity to kind of be introduced to
the whole experience. But, but yeah, that whole battery drain thing, just, it escapes me how
things like that, you know, leave quality assurance. And that's, that's a thumbs up.
How does that even process? I know people not use their own products. I don't understand.
It is weird. Like I've had issues on, on a couple of, I don't have, I haven't really had any weird
issues on my note too, or my HTC one, but all of my previous Android devices, like, and I've had a
few have all had weird bugs that nobody really talks about. And then when you like dig around
the XDA forms, you can see like people in the know are talking about it.
Right. But like nobody else is talking about it. I was like, come on, isn't this kind of,
isn't this kind of like something that people should be pissed off about?
I would hope so. I mean, good grief. Yeah. I think you're right. I think the press is giving them a
huge pass. I think that the end users are saying, well, you know, it's okay. Google's awesome. Or
they're becoming like Apple users. Yes, yes, exactly. You know, and maybe, and maybe, I don't
know, maybe it's a little, I don't know if it's more deserved in this case, maybe, but I mean,
we're sitting here with a Google hangout going right now. That kind of doesn't mix well. It's
like, yeah, I get, I get that. But at the same time, I have a high enough expectation for
usability. I mean, didn't they go out and like hire Kevin Rose to do this stuff or something,
right? I mean, wasn't he supposed to do this? Oh, he's doing VC crap. I thought he was, I thought
he's working for Google doing something. No, he is. Yeah. He's doing VC like Google has an arms,
Google, a Google ventures arm. Okay. Where they just go around giving money to people, I suppose.
Well, he used to troll stuff for usability. I'm just saying they need to cue him in and get
something going because whatever's going on isn't working. Whoever's in charge of Q and A needs to
be slapped. I'm just going to put that out there. I kind of, I kind of want a Moto X though. I'm a
con man. All right. Well, we got an email in the show from Mike and he said, first of all,
congrats to you and Angela, the new member of the family. Thanks, Mike. I wanted to complain a little
bit about what you're saying about Ubuntu since you started using Arch. I'm a software developer
and an Ubuntu user and I use Ubuntu on my desktop without being a Linux expert. For example, during
the last episode of last you spent, and this is came in on July 30th, so it's a little behind.
Okay. For example, in the last episode of last, you, you specified Arch use system D. I did not
know what that was before I had, and I, before you mentioned it and I had to Google it. I know you
prefer Arch, but what are your, but what are your, I know you prefer Arch, but you are an experienced
Linux system admin and a Linux guy. For normal users, Ubuntu is a lot easier. I, it was window,
it was a Windows user who occasionally dual booted with Windows and Fedora, OpenSUSE, PC, Linux OS,
Ubuntu, MintSUSE, and Ubuntu 12.04, and I'm not dual booting anymore. This is the OS I feel like
can replace Windows for me, and I think it's smooth, user-friendly. I watched Last Encoder Radio
for some time now, and when you took the Arch challenge, I decided to try Arch too, first in a
VM, then dual booting alongside Ubuntu. And I also tried in Terragros and Manjaro, and they all
bombed on him. So he's back on Ubuntu. Yeah. So a couple thoughts, and I'll try and run through
these quickly. Ubuntu is awesome for those, you know, if it's working for you, just like with any
Linux distro, if it's working for you, then that is the distro for you. That's a great choice. And
I certainly run it for certain purposes and not for others. Going back to the whole Arch and
Manjaro and some of these other things, Arch is an advanced distribution for people that are power
users in Linux. I mean, that really want to control every single aspect of their experience. It's a
Tinker's distro, right? It's a Tinker's distro. It's like you're a car guy, and you like to
mark on your car. And then Manjaro, of course, is, and they don't talk about this enough, but it is
very much still in beta. So it's got some issues, and it's a rolling release. So a lot of times,
the headaches you're dealing with are fixed in an update. So that's something to put out there as
well. That's one reason why I like Arch or Manjaro over Ubuntu is that I don't have to cross my
fingers every time I run the updater and hope it doesn't crap out on me because it does, and it has
happened. So, Ubuntu is awesome. I haven't been bit yet, although VirtualBox has died on me twice
now after an update, but other than that, and I was able to recover both times after slight
consternation. Absolutely right. And so there's nothing wrong with running Ubuntu at all. I'm
actually Skyping in on Ubuntu right now. That doesn't mean it's my primary desktop. I use
different things for everything. So we're not ripping on it in completion. We're simply saying
its current direction scares the hell out of us. It scares the hell out of me anyway.
He also mentions, though, by the way, that he's landed on Unity. I'm sorry, XFCE.
Oh, XFCE. That's good. Okay. That's cool. Yeah.
Yeah. That's interesting. All right. An email came in from Tom. He said,
Hi, Chris and Matt. It's good that you cover Linux features like Mint and Zorin OS that can
help ease the transition of Windows users to Linux. However, I feel something is still missing
with these reviews of Linux that the majority of Windows users are scared of not having.
Okay. Windows-like, active security, and visible security. The problem is that most Windows users
are used to software firewalls that prompt them to allow or deny permanent rules or every time
they connect to the Internet. On a standard Linux install, the firewall is off by default. Perhaps
even not seeing an animated network firewall icon on the taskbar could put some off. Having
antivirus software block a webpage, for example, that has malicious code injected into it not only
protects the Windows user, but alerts them that the site is hijacked and could siphon their
credentials. This is where I think Linux needs an antivirus and the fact that Linux doesn't need an
antivirus argument fails. Can you, Chris, Matt, and the chatroom suggest how to overcome the issues
of easy firewall antivirus-like protection on the Internet and more visible security on Linux?
I, of course, am interested in this as I do a boot, but I still find myself using Windows
more than I'd like to. I suspect others are in a similar situation. Sorry for that long email.
Great show and thanks for reading all of that. Two things. One, no argument from me. I think
that Linux users are living in la-la land when it comes to the belief that they're somehow protected
from malware. That's absolute crap. Second thing though, yes, there are absolutely antiviruses
that exist currently that do a fantastic job at dealing with Windows viruses on your Linux box.
And for those new things that crop up occasionally in the Linux space as far as viruses,
it'll take care of that as well. As far as having the alerts and stuff, I think that would be a
great idea, but that would require either a corporation getting involved or a nonprofit
or maybe some sort of crowdfunding environment to create something like that to happen.
We just haven't come to critical mass yet to where that's going to take place.
The apps already at the underlying level exist, but it's the bubbling,
the little bubbles and the alerts and the fluidity.
Okay, let me ask you this though, Matt. Don't you feel like this is maybe our opportunity to break
clean of this environment of fear that companies like Norton and McAfee have sustained for years
on the Windows platform to essentially manipulate Windows users into being scared to buy their
insurance policies? Yes and no. Well, no, not really. And here's
why. Okay, so the problem is that unless you're running something like Chrome or something that
basically has... I mean, you really are sure you're not going to get infected with something.
Even in Linux, if it executes code, there's that potential. Most people using a computer,
especially coming from the Windows space, don't have any idea what they're doing. And so,
as far as having the alerts and stuff is concerned, a lot of people find that comforting,
even if it is a little delusional, much like UAC. It's like, oh, that makes me feel more comfortable.
Even though it's completely pointless, it does offer some comfort. Sadly, yes, some companies
do take advantage of that. But I do think that security in Linux for casual users,
non-IT people, is terrible. And I'm going to say that again. I think if you're a non-IT person that
literally just jumped over from Windows, you are going to execute everything you can get
your hands on because you don't know any differently. You don't know about where
the packages are coming from. And you really do need something to basically babysit you because
people aren't wired for that. They're just not. IT people are, absolutely. IT people roll their
eyes and think, God, you people are idiots. But the fact of the matter is, I used to deal with
people like this on a daily basis. Folks aren't wired for that. So they do need the option of
a babysitter. But I don't think it should necessarily be enabled by default. I think
when you install a distro, that it should prompt you, are you a newbie or are you advanced? And
then your experience is then catered accordingly. That's all I would say. All right, let's take it
to the Hangout. Let's give Chris there with the epic beard a chance to, because he didn't have
his mic working last time I went to him. Chris, is your mic working now? Oh, no, hold on. Still
not. Man, two in a row. That's going to be your last chance, man. Yeah, you got to check that
stuff with PulseAudio somehow. It's all right. Anybody else on the Hangout panel want to chime
in? Do you think Linux needs antivirus invisible security, more visible security alerts to the user?
Anybody want to? And it's a placebo. Take it, Josh. Yeah, take it. I think Clam AV has its use,
not for viruses on Linux, but for scanning files that potentially have viruses that could be
harmful to Windows, because that still could island hop over to your Windows machines,
say if you're an office. Well, I remember we just talked about it yesterday on last.
You have that malware that is not really interested in much on your Linux box other than what your
web browser is doing. It cares more about what Chrome and Firefox are up to. Exactly. Can you
hear me? Yeah, we hear you, Chris. Awesome. What do you think? Well, I think that if you want to
have something visual to give to a new user, you can have plenty of web browser plugins,
whether for Chrome or Firefox that you can throw in there, things like NoScript or Adblock Plus
that can give you a visual that can keep bad things from executing within the browser. But I
think that as far as a firewall or antivirus goes, you have your Clam AV and you have a couple of
other options. But when it comes to the firewall, I think that's an opportunity to teach. It's an
opportunity to introduce people that aren't familiar to teach them how it works and how to
maintain it. Because as much as you would like to, you can't sit grandma down with any version of
Linux and expect her to know how everything works and expect it to be safe. You have to
carry on from there and give them the full experience and teach them. Yeah, very good
points. All right. So I tend to agree and more so from the fact that I think I'm on board with you
guys in regards to what users need to be comfortable and to act as an educational
experience. In fact, we aren't the first people to touch on this, Matt. You remember Xandros.
Oh, yeah. Actually, I did a presentation, Linux Fest 03, I believe, on Xandros, talking about
the fact that, and one of the analogies I used, the screenshot you have up here giving an example,
is that they understand that just because you like to eat does not mean that you like to cook.
They understand that just because you like to have your oil changed does not mean that you
want to sit there in the driveway with your monkey suit on and get under the car. I'm one of those
guys. I'm like six flavors lazy. There's no way I have any interest in doing any of that. And I
would pose the same thing to a computer. So a lot of IT people have this belief that, well,
they just need to learn. Really, what are the things that you pay to have someone do for you
that you're not interested in learning? Translate that. That's the point of it. It's a lot of people
are willing and happy to pay for software or other tools to do that for them. Stepping outside of that
bubble for a minute, I would say this is an opportunity to start promoting boxes that sit
outside of the computer attached to your router that would then run this stuff for you. So that
it is out of the box easy. They don't have to worry about it and it's secure. So that's another
option as well. But no, people don't want to learn this stuff. I can't tell you how many times that
I hear that and it's just like, it's a novelty thought. I think even young people know how to
run smartphones. They know how to run Angry Birds. They know how to play games. They don't give a
flying crap about a lot of this stuff unless they are in fact geeks or they are in fact interested
in this stuff. A lot of them aren't though. You'd be surprised. Good point. Sad, but it's true.
Actually, to us it seems foreign and strange, but these people have other things in their lives that
they're more interested in and I can't hold that against them. I deal with them every day and some
of these people are really smart individuals. That's how a lot of us make money is by dealing
with these people. And it is wasteful and it is silly, but it's true. I worry about
future generations not learning. But look, here's something else that I worry about and our next
sponsor is going to help you solve a problem that is becoming more and more of a concern for a lot
of us with a lot of the recent NSA revelations going on. ProXPN. Go to ProXPN.com. You know what
they are? They are what I think is becoming one of the up and coming premier VPN solution providers.
They got all types of VPNs, great VPNs, and they also use open VPN, which obviously I'm a huge fan
of. So if you haven't thought about why you might want a VPN, obviously the first is to kind of
protect your identity online. And the other would be to keep what you're doing private. Even though
you might be VPNing to somewhere else, it might eventually get monitored. It's at least one step
removed. But the other thing you can use it for is to put yourself physically in another location.
So maybe if you need to be over across the pond, either side of that pond, ProXPN can help you do
that. And we've got a great deal for ProXPN. When you go to ProXPN.com and you decide to buy,
you can take 20% off the lifetime of your purchase. And I think their base rate is only like
seven bucks a month. It's super crazy cheap. Yeah. And with ProXPN, you're going to get unlimited
anonymous IP addresses. You can have PPT connectivity. You can have open VPN connectivity.
They've got support for mobile devices. They've got customer support, unlimited data transfer,
great speeds. I've been playing with it. I'm pretty dang impressed. And they also have a
nice control panel. And you can just set this right up in network manager and then connect
from your Linux box. It's really, really sweet. So go to ProXPN.com. Use the code JBLIVE when you
check out. JBLIVE will get you 20% off of that plan for like ever. And they have a really good Linux
tutorial actually for folks that are coming to it from the Linux desktop. It's worth checking out.
They've got server locations in Singapore, London, Seattle, Dallas, Los Angeles, New York,
and Amsterdam. And they have 512-bit encrypted tunnels. And their encryption key is a 2048-bit
encryption key. So pretty good stuff. Go to ProXPN.com and use the code JBLIVE when you
check out to get 20% for life. We've had a lot of people asking us about VPNs. And that's how
I would do it. So I thought, hey, if this is how I'm going to do it, these guys should be a sponsor.
That's right. Andre writes, and he says, on OMG Ubuntu, there's an article about the
Android lock screen getting an official, quote unquote, not official at all,
Ubuntu touch lock screen where you can replace the lock screen on your Android device with the
Ubuntu touch. And of course, this is stirring up some controversy. It was done by a developer
over on the XDA forums. And I'm looking at a picture of it right now. And it looks like all
the promo images you've seen of Ubuntu touch running on Android, that clock with the dots
going around. Right. Yeah. And so he's asking, what do we think about this kind of thing? Is this
hurting canonical? Is this evil to rip off a Linux company like this? Or is this just part of the way
the web works now? I think it remains to be seen. I really do. I'm still kind of on the fence about
it. Lately, the company as a whole has me just scratching my head as to what they're thinking.
Well, no, this isn't canonical. They did the port. Some other guys took it and said,
I like the look of it. I'm going to make a port of it and kind of rip off their branding a little
bit. Oh, that's naughty. No, that's not good. That's not good at all. That's not all right.
Nope. That's kind of where I fell down too. I mean, I like it. I'm not going to lie.
I did have it on my Nexus 7.
Oh, nice. Hey, you know, you got to try it.
But that's just because I'm just waiting for Ubuntu Touch to finish.
Deval writes and he says, hello, Chris and Matt. I've been listening to the show for a while now.
I've grown to be quite a fan of it. I would just like to say thank you for
providing such a great, amazing content day after week and week after week. I don't know
how you do it, to be honest. Well, thanks, Deval. I do it by not pronouncing names correctly. I
don't spend any time. Yeah. I would like to add that my dad finally runs Linux thanks to you
guys. His ancient 1GB of RAM, 1.6GHz Core 2 Duo finally got messed up enough that he couldn't
connect to the internet anymore. So he finally agreed to let me put Linux on it. Now I have an
option as the choice of distro. But since this is my dad and it was an old laptop, I decided to
give Linux Mint 15 a try thanks to your review of it on the show. And it looks gorgeous. It looks
absolutely spectacular and my father was completely blown away by it. Now I don't have to worry about
him installing some malware toolbar.exe or anything like that on his machine. But wait,
there's more. My sister came to me with a strange request the same day wanting to extract a couple
of clips from a video. At first I didn't think I had any choice and I thought I'd have to use
Windows Movie Maker. Then I remembered you guys talking about OpenShot. I quickly downloaded
onto my sister's laptop, extracted the clips she needed through X11VNC because she asked me to do
it on her computer and I wasn't there. Thank you guys enough for introducing me to OpenShot and
more. Keep up the great show and congratulations on the baby, Chris. That's awesome. Yeah, you know,
and throw some Splashtop on that and you can do it from the comfort of your own home. Yeah, now
that's, you know, Splashtop might be fast enough you could actually video edit. Oh, you could. I've
actually done it. Yeah, you totally can. Yeah, I linked in the show notes there was an article
that Ferronix ran that was like they did some sort of test and they were saying like Splashtop
in some cases was, I don't know how this is possible. Actually, now that I think about it.
But I think it was saying 10 times faster than VNC. Based on my experiences, I can't assign a
numeric value to it, but it is, it was painfully faster than VNC. I won't assign numbers to it,
but it was VNC and then going back to VNC or even TeamViewer or any of the others. It was,
it was, there was definitely a difference, but VNC just, it's horrible to use VNC after using
Splashtop. It's just horrible. I don't know. I feel dirty. I don't know. Hey Matt,
do you have any experience with BT Guard? Isn't that for Guard? No. Yeah. That's not a VPN
solution. Isn't that for just making sure you don't VPN from the wrong... Something that worked
really well for about a year. No, it's not something that is really considered to be a
secure. It's a little bit kind of the, they're dealing with some of the, yeah, I would avoid it
personally. I haven't had good experiences that I've heard about it, but I've not used it personally,
so I can't speak, but yeah, I wouldn't. Google around about BT Guard problems, BT Guard security,
and then come to your own conclusion. So hang out. I want to toss to you guys real quick. Anybody in
there play with Splashtop or any other remote desktop solutions that you think are worth
people checking out? Anybody had any experience with those? No. Everybody's shaking their head.
No. Well, all right. Let's check that out. Yeah. Yeah. I thought Splashtop was pretty great. Oh,
you'll, yeah. It'll change the way you use your computer. You will literally like all the stuff
that you need to have your, just, you know, when you're doing just like mild mouse access for that,
you have to come upstairs to do or go to another room to do. You'll be doing this from your
recliner from now on. I'm telling you. Absolutely. And yes, TeamViewer is also a really good one,
but I found that the performance is a wee bit better with the Splashtop. So. All right. Garrett
writes in, he says, hi Chris and Matt, long veer of the show. I try to catch it every episode.
Congrats on the new kid. I've heard you say you do all your editing on the Bonobo. I would hope
that means under Linux, he says. If it is, what programs do you use for editing? I've been unable
to find many good programs for video editing under Linux. So Gary, you have some back episodes to go
catch up on my friend. I do the, I could edit audio on the Bonobo. I can do the soundboard
from the Bonobo. So like if, if we were sitting around here and all of a sudden, I decided like,
oh crap, you know, I, hey, I think that's Anderson Cooper. Oh my gosh. It's Anderson Cooper,
everybody. Something like that is driven from a Linux box right now in the studio,
but the video editing is happening on, on the final cut on the, on the Apple's final cut.
I was thinking though, possibly about this show might be our first regular show that I edit fully
under the GNU slash Linux. Wow. I don't know. I mean, open shot, I guess would probably be the
way to go. Yes. I'd say open shots. Good. Although Katie, it depends on what you're really doing as
far as transitions and stuff. Yes. I'm going to say open shot probably is an option, but you might
want to try the Katie in live. Go that route for especially running a Katie. Whoa, Fox news alert.
That comes in with Katie in live. That was for the chat room. All right, Chris. This one comes
from Cody. Hi there, Chris and Matt. Great show. Been watching since shortly before Brian left and
boy has it gotten good. Anyway, I was wondering if I could get your input on something. I have a
Raspberry Pi set up in my house as a combined NAS and deal in a media server with one terabyte of
external hard drive attached via USB. I'm looking to restrict the NAS port only I had to select.
Other few people could access it from windows and access it at the same time as I'm the only
Linux user in the house. So which is easier to set up a kind of Raspbian ITS or some boy,
this is getting clunky. But what I think he's saying is he wants to set up a NAS server and
only give certain people access. And he says congrats on the baby. So C Smith, Cody, here's
what I would say. Yeah, so he asked if Samba would be the right way to go. If you've got Raspbian
already loaded on your Raspberry Pi, then you can start Samba and then there is a command called
SMB password and you do SMB password dash E and then the Linux user that you want to have access
and you could just enable just those users. So you could enable your account and your buddy's
account, but not the other people's account in your house, right? Good stuff. Lazarus asked
whatever happened to Lightworks. First of all, I can't get it running on Arch. Yeah, it's still
so long out and I, you know, honestly I'm holding out for what OpenShot plans on doing over time.
I think that's probably in the long stretch is probably where it's going to come out winning.
Although Kdenlive has been kind of my go-to thing here lately, just because it does have more,
it has additional functions that are useful to me. Oh yeah. But, you know, but OpenShot's really
cool if you want the blender functionality, things like that. But I think long-term,
I think OpenShot will be the winner as they begin plugging in all the work that he's been
putting into it. Yeah, man, that's what I was thinking. It's like, might as well get on board
with that now. Although I'll be honest, the one advantage that Lightworks, and I don't know if
OpenShot does this, it depends on if it just uses FFmpeg, but I record stuff in that crazy ass ProRes
format. We'll see. And all this stuff is, and maybe this too, I'm not sure about that specifically,
but all this stuff, he's completely retooling OpenShot. I mean, like totally from the ground
up, everything's different. And so as that becomes to come about, he's trying to make it more pro
level. I think I'm trying to find his Kickstarter page right now, but I don't see, I think I remember
him saying- He just did an update on his Facebook page. I don't know if it's, he's sending out all
the goodies now. I think I remember they are working on that. So that would be interesting.
All right. So we got, I think this will be our last email. There's still, let's see, if I tab
over to the Linux box, how do I, how do you, Thunderbird doesn't, oh yeah, here we go. There's
still 189 unread emails. And that didn't even open up BitMessage. I've been replying to BitMessages
this morning. In fact, speaking of that, that fits in well with our next email from Sam. He says,
hi, Chris and Matt. In one of your shows, Chris said that he doesn't watch much television anymore.
Instead, he subscribes to podcasts. I like the idea since I don't watch television either. So I
started looking for interesting podcasts, not necessarily Linux specific, but I really didn't
find anything worth listening to. So would Chris mind sharing a list of the podcasts with us?
That's a great idea. This floats around a lot for me because I browse around to see what other folks
have up their sleeves. But that's where, so I'll start with one podcast that I listen to every,
every Sunday after Lass. After Lass is done, after it's published, after I've put the family to bed,
I break out a beer and I listen to a little No Agenda with Adam Curry and John C. Dvorak. And
they, Adam Curry, was experimenting with BitMessage this morning. So I've been corresponding with Adam
Curry this morning over BitMessage, which was fun. And he's, you know, he's got an interest in it. And
so it was, it's cool to work with people as they try out BitMessage for the first time. So No Agenda
is on my list of one of my regulars. And another podcast that I listen to every single week,
otherwise I just jump around a lot, is Mission Log, a Roddenberry Star Trek podcast, where they're
going in chronological air date of the Star Trek shows, starting with the original series, working
all the way up to the end of Enterprise. And they just did an episode 53, The Ultimate Computer,
where M5... Oh yes, I remember that. Yeah. M5 comes on board and they plug in M5 and he takes
over the Enterprise and then the chaos ensues. So I really enjoy that podcast. So that's one I listen
to regularly, but I really, those, there's another one I listen to on occasion this week in Trek. You
can tell I'm kind of been in a Star Trek kick lately. I'll also occasionally listen to This
American Life and Radio Lab, but not too often. And then otherwise I just kind of shop. What about
you, Matt? Do you have any podcasts you listen to on a regular basis? I'm not really so much anymore.
I used to listen to a lot of the, some of the Twitter network stuff, you know, off and on.
Oh yeah. Yeah. I'll tune into their live stream sometimes. Sure. I'm a buddy of Lamar Wilson. So
I of course listened to all his stuff and we're actually rather view it. And so I watched that.
That's really, you know, I don't watch as many podcasts as I used to. I'm just, you know,
so caught up in my usual day-to-day stuff. So I'm either out doing something or I'm, or I'm
watching. I understand you got the Netflix plague. Yeah. I got the, I got Plex. What do you want?
I know, right? How great has Plex been? Plex has really been awesome. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So I've
been, I've been catching a lot of pretty, some, some pretty good shows. I think out of all of
the sort of, you know, a lot of the stuff we do in these segments are like, Chris is solving a
problem in his house and now he's going to talk about it. Or Chris solved a problem for a client.
Now he's going to, I mean, that's honestly where like a lot of the topics come from. True. And
Plex was like, oh man, I want to just like, I just want to do a whole Plex show. I love Plex so much
these days. I've even, I even got, I even signed up and bought a lifetime membership of my Plex.
And I originally, when I said, I was like, yeah, I'm not going to buy that. I'm just going to use
the freebie. But then, you know, I was out, I had the HTC one has fantastic freaking speakers on it.
And I was like, gosh, you know, we're going to Costco. We're going to be sitting in the truck
while we wait for something to get delivered. I've got 30 minutes to kill with my kids to do
my Plex pulled up one of their favorite little shows and you know, perfectly viewable, perfectly
watchable from the HTC one right there while we're sitting in the Costco parking lot. Oh, that's
awesome. Yeah. And you know, I sure I could do that from Netflix, but this is my collection.
Exactly. Cause I mean that I'm in the same boat and, and that's exactly what I do. I mean, I have
a lot of stuff on Voodoo that, you know, basically the, where you buy a DVD or Blu-ray and it comes
with a little slip and you put it on the, you know, put it on your Voodoo set up. I've got
that. I got the Netflix, I got the Hulu, but yeah, I find myself using Plex more and more simply
because it's DVDs and Blu-rays that I've backed up. So this is content that I'm excited about
and not Netflix. Yeah, exactly. And the quality is a little better.
Way better. And the other thing that has happened to me, I've been bitten by is,
is that age old problem where a doesn't work under Linux natively and
they, they pull content off of there from time to time and then you're kind of left off. Oh, shoot.
Shoot. Crap. Crap. There's one more topic I want to talk about before we go. I shouldn't have waited
this long, Matt. Oh, dang it. So you and I asked during the live stream last week, let's just ask
the Hangout panel right now. Just curious, anybody on the Hangout, just say I, if you are considering
rolling your own mail server. Oh yes. All right. Got one, two. All right. There's two. And so two,
two out of the, out of the group of you, I don't have any, what is it? Eight people on top of five
people. So when we asked in the IRC chat room, look at all these I's in the IRC right now, right?
Look at all these. Oh yeah. Look at all these. So when we asked last week, because last week,
lava bit shut down. Tor mail was shut down. Secure circle shut down. Okay. In like a two week time
span, the private email industry, all the top dogs have just basically left the market.
And I got to thinking about the fact that when you're on a Google mail, a Hotmail, whatever it is,
you have no idea who's asking for what, when it gets, when it happens. Exactly. You don't know if
you get swept up in some sort of mass surveillance, like what happens with the Verizon and other telco
phone metadata monitoring. And if you host your own email server in your house or on your own
private locked up VPS, at least they have to come to you and they have to say, we want access to
your email, Mr. Fisher. And they have to serve me a warrant. And it no longer becomes a convenience
for them, really. It's right. It's not something where eventually the companies are going to
build in these automated extraction processes to save them time and money. It's not something
where they can just put a tap right in front of my house and monitor. Yeah, well, maybe. And it's
one of these things where at least I would have some sort of visibility, even if I can't prevent
it from happening. Even if there's no legal recourse, I at least am aware of when it happens.
And so these things got me thinking. And so I set up a mail server using some open source software
from my grandparents recently. It was from part of my grandpa's birthday. I got him a dot com using
our last 249 code. And then I, or Linux 249. And then I forwarded that to their own personal
mail server that I pre-set up for them on that Nexus 7. So they just push the little mail button
on the Nexus 7 and it launches into their private mail account. And because they were on MSN for
years, since MSN was a dial up service back in the day when it competed with AOL, I said, okay,
grandma and grandpa, let's get you off MSN. Let's get you on, you know, and we have a good in family
joke URL that we use that everybody thought was really great and had a good laugh at. And I set
all this up and I thought, yeah, maybe I should do this for myself. I'm getting emails from people
outside the United States all the time. Who knows what the hell they want to talk to me about? Who
knows what the hell is going to be in that email? Who knows what list they might be on when I'm
responding back to them? And so I've been thinking about this a little bit, but I don't like the idea
of having a mail server in my house. It's a pain in the ass. Oh yeah. It doesn't, it doesn't,
at least at first pass, it doesn't seem very practical. I mean, when you first think about it.
Here's what I think. Here's what, here's the sort of like thing that nods at me is it's one of those
things where it's hard to quantify a reason to do it today fully. Oh yeah, man, maybe the NSA is
going to monitor my shit, but I don't care. I'm not saying anything. I don't care. It's not like
I'm all that important. But the reality to me seems like, so there was this, now we're getting
down to the conspiracy range, but there was this story that ran this week that the NSA plans to
reduce their system administration staff by 90% and automate the majority of the task automation.
That seems obvious. Of course that's going to happen, right? And so, so they do this task
automation. They're going to, they're going to automate all of this data analysis. And pretty
soon it's just going to be computers looking at this stuff, indexing, storing information. And
it's going to be every now and then a one's going to go in this database for so Matt likes cats.
Let's put a one in that, put a, put a one in that field. All right. Matt likes burgers, put a one in
that field. And over 20 years, they're going to have all of this information about you that you
have no say in opting out of that system. And you get all of the, you're going to have all of these
weird things that will happen. You'll have profiling that happens. You'll have analysis that
happens. You'll have assumptions that are made based on you contributing 20, 30, whatever it's
going to be years, 10 years of information into the system. And at that point, when that arrives,
you'll look back and go, well, shit, maybe I should have done something about that back early
when I found out about this shit was going on. I knew it was a bad idea all along. I knew this
was going to happen, but I never did anything. And now it's too late. And to quantify this and
for people that are thinking, oh my gosh, this sounds like unfiltered stuff. Cause I understand
that at first pass it does. Let me put this into something we all experience junk mail,
mailing lists and catalogs for really weird stuff. Okay. This is an example of being thrown into that
kind of bucket on a very platonic, casual scale. Don't try to appease them. If people don't like
that, don't try to appease the people that say this unfiltered stuff are just morons that aren't
appreciating the situation that we're in. And you know what I'm trying to help people process.
Open source Linux software is here to help us with all of this. Let's not, let's not hide from it.
Let's embrace the fact that this is a new calling for open source software. This is a new
need that open source software can solve. And I think we should embrace that fact.
I think it's worth celebrating that aspect of it, that thankfully we've all been sitting here,
champion, a platform and a methodology and a theology that in the long run is going to protect
us from an oppressive government, at least at the technological level. And I don't think we
should shy away from that. I don't, it's stupid. It, it, it's, it demeans. It's, it's reductive
of the overall issue to say, no, that's unfiltered related that come on, screw those guys.
Well, I'm not even trying to appease them. A lot of times when people feel that way,
it's a defensive mechanism because we're taught to not question things. We want to get,
we want to get more people to, to, you know, actually rationally think about things.
It's not about appeasing them. It's helping them to see something in a new way.
Yeah.
You know, maybe it's like someone trying Linux for the first time. Well,
I've heard that stupid because I heard it was this and I heard it with that,
but by getting them to actually quantify it and something they can relate to, it's like,
Oh, well, okay. Well, that makes sense to me. So by using that catalog example, that is an example
of how that has happened. Back over factually, it will happen. You will end up in a list that you
don't want to be on. That's, that's reality. When you, when this, all this service harvesting garbage
goes on, it will happen. Next thing you know, you're going to be on a list for, I like to,
you know, explode cats or something because you looked up, you know, you have explosive diarrhea
on one. And you have, and you love cats on the other and that gets intermixed. Things happen.
There was something I was looking for just last week for unfiltered. And I, I, I, I opened up the
tab and of course, you know, in Chrome, you just start, you just start typing and it starts Google.
And I started typing out, I said, this is a DuckDuckGo search. And it was like, I don't know,
I don't remember what it was, but it was like one of those things where I was like, I don't really
want to log this. You know, what's funny to show you why the system and there's, so if you remove
all conspiracy from it, you're just going to have a system that just doesn't work anyways.
I'll give you an example right now. If I pull out my HTC one and I look at my Google now screen,
now Google now is giving me driving directions to the nearest Walmart. I don't go to Walmart,
but during Coder radio today, Michael said the phrase Walmartification. And I Google searched,
I Google search to Walmartification just to get the spelling of it. Cause I wanted,
I thought it'd be a great title suggestion because I Google searched Walmartification.
Apparently Google now thinks I'm a Walmart shopper and is preventing me or is presenting me a Google
now card with driving directions to the nearest Walmart. And this is just, I don't want to be in
the system as a Walmart user. I forget the video. There was a really awesome video that talked
about the danger of Google having some of the power that it does. And it was a guy that was
calling up to check on the status of something he'd ordered. And it was, I think it was like a
new pair of pants or something. He's like, well, according to our records, you know,
you've been to the doctor recently because of your blood pressure and oh, your weight's kind
of going up there. We need to look into that. Oh no, he's ordering a pizza. That's what it was.
He was ordering a pizza and it went through his medical history and all this other stuff because
it was just readily available. You know, that kind of environment, that kind of world isn't
really that unlikely to be that far off. And it's kind of scary. That's not tinfoil hat stuff.
Stuff we deal with now 10, 15 years ago, hell 20 years ago was totally tinfoil.
Here we are, you know, so that's kind of how I see it.
I would leave you with this final thought too, is like, if you like the ability of running your
own email server, if you like the idea of having your own file server, if you like that, then it
is worth being a user of that just to encourage those developers to continue on.
That's a cool skill to learn. It's cool. And it's kind of neat to be able to set it up for people,
you know? Yeah. Yeah. You know, I mean, so I think I might, I think I might cover how I set
up that mail system for them because I used a really cool open source package that I think
a lot of people could use to get going. I did it like it, I did it in an afternoon.
Yeah. So I think it worked out pretty well. So I, this is a point of, this is maybe a topic I'd
like to get more feedback from you guys out there on is how you've rolled your own mail service. So
email us linuxactionshow at jupiterbroadcasting.com. Of course, love to hear all of your feedback out
there. You can join us Monday afternoons for Linux Action Show Unplugged. And I think also,
this is a long shot. If anybody out there has a Mumble server and like to help us get that up and
run it, I don't know anything about Mumble really. I mean, I know what Mumble is, but I've never set
up a Mumble server. I don't really want to. I don't know if I want to use a Mumble host or which
one's good. So if you have an experience out there, if you run a Mumble server and want to
help the community out, get in touch with us, just email me or the show, chris at jupiterbroadcasting.com
and linuxactionshow at jupiterbroadcasting.com. I wanted to give a special plug. I'll put the link
in the chat room right now. Professor Messer? Professor Messer. I think is how you say his
last name. It's a YouTube channel. Yeah. I know. And it's one I stumbled across this weekend when
prepping for last. And I thought I'd just give people, it's, he's got, he just uploaded a couple
of CompTIA Linux Plus tutorials. Linux Plus common bootloader commands, Linux device drivers, Linux
hardware resources. He's got, he's got like, it's, it's for getting your CompTIA Linux Plus exam.
And he's got videos that go through those, those sections of the LX, LX 101 and LX 101 Li, LPIC 1
and 1.1. It's, anyways, if you, if you're looking at the Linux Plus exams or you're curious about
the material they cover, his YouTube channel not only has those, but lots of other good stuff in
there. He's got A plus hardware information in there. He's got network plus video groups in
there and study group sessions in there. I think he is a, a college professor himself or some,
somebody in that degree who covers this stuff. And I thought it was just an interesting resource.
And it's as current as if two days ago with some of this stuff. So I'll put a link to that in the
show notes. Professor Messer is the M E S Professor M E S S E R is the channel on YouTube. It might
be a little good extra reading if you guys are looking for something afterwards. Hang out guys.
Thanks for joining us. Anybody want anything to touch on before we go? Last chance. Hang out.
I'm done. All right, Don. Well, thanks for joining us. It was good to see you.
I'll see you again. All right. Very good. Chris, wonderful beard and Josh. Thanks for chatting with
us guys. It was good to see from you and everybody else who didn't speak up. Thanks for joining us.
You guys, you're a good panel. I'm going to hang up on you guys now. There you go. All right, Matt.
Well, I think that'll wrap up the first episode of last unplugged. Still in, still in beta. We'll
be working out the format. So of course really any, any, any input you guys have and things you
want to see from the show, just let us know where, where it's very early in the massaging process.
Lots of, lots of possibilities still. And we'd love to get more of your input, especially
as we get like to a mumble server or something like that. You guys can join us regularly and
hang out in there and talk with us. So I think that'll be a lot of fun. Don't forget. We want
your feedback. Linux action show at Jupiter broadcasting.com. Or if you use that contact
link at the top of our site, just for you guys, just for this show. Well, really everybody gets
it now, but I did it because of the show. I added the subject line, huh? Subject line, Matt. How
about that? I like it. I like the format. I think it's going to work out really well. Absolutely.
All right, everyone. Thanks so much. We'll see you on Sunday for the big show. See you back here
next Monday.
Bye.